- All right, that's what is the edge.
Can you tell me please?
- Oh my, no, no prepper, like no build up.
- No, just straight go.
- What is the edge?
- The edge is something everyone's talking about.
People can't get enough of the edge.
Everything has to be edge.
But what is it?
Does anyone do it actually?
- I don't know if anyone's really doing it.
(upbeat music)
- So I'm more seriously, so I did a video on this topic
just 'cause it was like coming up so much
and people asked about it so much.
- I feel bad that I haven't seen it.
Is this been up for a while?
Or have you not published it?
- No, I have, I mean, it wasn't anything crazy.
But yeah, I think it comes up a lot
because there's always like, you know,
the hype cycle always happens with everything.
There's a new concept.
It's genuinely exciting.
There's like genuinely really interesting things about it.
But because it's exciting, it gets talked about a lot.
And then it blows up.
People feel like everything is gonna be on this new thing.
Everything has to switch to it.
It's a future if you don't have it,
if you're not doing it, you're over.
- I feel that way.
- Yeah. (laughs)
I've gone through this process so many times
and one of the new thing comes, I still,
it just still sucks you in, it's really hard.
- Yeah.
- To like look at something objectively.
And then eventually at some point,
it goes the other way where people are like,
"This sucks, this is terrible."
Like we've all been lied to.
- I've seen that curve.
- And that's just the hype cycle curve.
I've definitely seen that where it's like,
it peaks and then crashes way low and then slowly.
So it will eventually be relevant
and we're just not there yet.
I feel like I've just seen this happen so many times
with literally every single thing that I'm like,
it just has to happen again.
Like this is what we do as an industry.
So it's the tech not there yet.
'Cause like I know next JSConf,
they're getting ready to talk about the edge
like nonstop for a whole day from what I've gathered,
from tweets.
Is it just not there yet?
- I think it's, I don't think it's,
I think it's more like,
with like with every single thing in engineering,
there's always trade offs.
And if you make one thing better,
you're making another thing worse.
The edge isn't magic.
It's so is subject to distributed systems rules.
If you move stuff,
if you move some things closer to your users,
now those things are further away
from some of your other stuff.
So you're paying the price somewhere else.
- Is this the kind of point out with the cap theorem?
Sorry, I just keep it.
- Yeah, exactly, exactly.
The cap theorem still applies.
You still have to do with all those issues.
And I think a lot of these services
have done a good job moving your front end to the edge,
which makes a lot of sense.
Like that's like the least computationally heavy,
state heavy thing in your whole architecture.
- So just like the files sitting on a CDN,
like that's, they're at the edge.
You get them quickly,
but then all your API calls and things like that
are slow because they're not the edge.
- Yeah, they still go to a region, like a centralized region.
Or maybe you have multiple regions, whatever it is.
You know, that, you know, it's pretty good
for certain architectures.
But now we have like computing at the edge
where you're moving your business logic to the edge.
And that feels great 'cause like,
oh, the user is right there.
The business logic is right there.
It's gonna be instant.
But then it's kind of like, okay,
but your business logic still needs to write things
to a database, which is probably still in a regional zone.
So now every round trip is more expensive.
Is this all actually worth it?
Things might actually be slower.
Your compute and your database are now separated
geographically and that's slow.
Can you just put everything on the edge?
I know people talk about like SQLite.
Can you just put SQLite databases everywhere on the edge?
How does that work?
How do they all stay in sync?
- Well, so that's the next problem.
Okay, so now let's move the database to the edge.
Now it feels like we solved it,
but now your database is further away
from other database nodes than it used to be.
It has a whole new suite of problems there.
And you know, all that SQLite stuff is really interesting.
Like they're good options.
I think we're just kind of like,
I feel like all of the cloud has just been,
we optimize for one use case,
then we flip like the decisions
and now you have a different set of things
you optimize for that you flip it
and you have a different set of things you optimize for.
So the SQLite stuff, pretty interesting,
like reads at the edge that are eventually consistent,
all your rights will go to a single place.
I think for some stuff that could be cool.
Do I think every single thing is gonna move to that?
No, I think my proof is,
I mean, I have a question for you,
like how often do you even see companies
operating in multiple regions?
Like if I'm rarely ever something like that?
Yeah.
So if people haven't,
the option to operate in multiple regions
has been possible forever.
Very few companies opt to do that
'cause it comes with trade-offs, difficulty, et cetera.
So if you haven't even done multiple regions,
like doing edge is like doing a thousand regions, right?
So, yeah, it's challenging.
So like if you think about Vercel and Next.js Conf,
they're gonna be talking a lot about,
'cause you can basically do,
you're not an Next.js user, I forget.
But you can run like your API routes in Next.js
or your SSR at the edge now.
I know that was like a recent thing.
But like, is it just, are they just glossing over?
Does anyone talk about what you do with your data store?
I've never heard Vercel talk about that,
but if I just missed it?
No, I honestly don't know either.
And we see a lot of people.
So I think the edge stuff is great.
You can move more, like you're back into your edge,
but people end up moving their whole back into the edge.
So they don't have like an API anymore.
That's regional.
Yeah.
And then stuff starts to be slow.
Like the round trips, like it's at a database or slow.
I had an ideal setup,
which is probably too extreme for most companies,
but the ideal setup is your Next.js.
Next.js, next.js app deployed to the edge,
but the back, but it's not talking to your database.
It's talking to a regional API,
like a GraphQL API, whatever,
AppSync API, whatever it is.
And then that talks to your database.
That way your edge to regional can still be a single round trip
'cause GraphQL, you can kind of like batch
everything you need into a single request.
Then you can do as many round trips with the databases you want
'cause your regional API is close to it
like the response back.
I think that's like the ideal setup,
but I think people are not pursuing it as,
oh, I don't need that regional API.
So the regional API just lives like in U.S. East one
or something, if you're dumb.
And everyone else, yeah.
So if in that scenario, your Next.js API route
is maybe hitting from like central Europe,
it's going across and hitting the U.S. data center.
So that's the slow part.
But how does that manifest?
I'm just trying to think through,
that's the other thing I started thinking about is like
on the right side, like on mutations in a GraphQL sense,
how much does it even matter?
How much does performance,
like I started getting really into nerding out on this stuff
and then it's like, if you just optimistically
like update your UI, does any of it matter?
- I don't think it does.
My whole thing with this is we have tools
to capture certain metrics, like all the White House scores.
That captures, like I said, a metrics
and everyone knows them, so we can optimize for those.
But we don't have tools to measure other stuff.
Like when someone uses an app, does it feel fast?
Like you can't pull every user and say like, how does this feel?
I found that most of the answer to this is that feel fast
doesn't come from these like architectural things.
It comes from what you're talking about,
like little tricks that you do.
And you have to like lie to the user
and make it seem like something happened instantly
when it didn't.
That's where you get the snappy feeling apps from.
Like things like linear, superhuman, like things like that.
It doesn't really come from this stuff.
Like all of those systems,
they're not like these crazy edge rendered things.
They're like old school SPA's.
I'm saying old school now because apparently SPA is.
- We've bent away from that.
And that's another thing I just want to talk to you about.
And I don't know, we'll get into something AWS
at some point, I'm sure.
But the whole like MPA, SPA,
the whole dialogue around web right now,
honestly, it confuses me.
I don't even, I feel like I don't know enough
to even engage in that conversation.
I see really smart people talking about it
and like I'll literally read their tweets,
like really smart people.
I'll read them and I just can't even comprehend
what they're saying.
Do you understand that whole debate
and like where things are going?
Cause I just don't get it.
- Very little.
I definitely understand what these options are.
But like within the options that like the user understands,
there's like all these sub options.
And I think it's mostly framework authors talking
with each other on that, which makes sense.
Like we're never really gonna be able to keep up with that.
But I'm also confused because I work on like actual products
and I like try to make them fast, make them feel snappy.
And there's things that I'm doing
and there's things that I care about.
Then I look at the conversation about performance
and I'm like, I'm not doing any of those things.
Is that bad?
Am I like optimizing for this thing that's gonna be dead?
Like I'm also like, you know, working,
like we work, like we're building stuff for developers.
We wanna make sure we're aligned
with where things are going.
But again, it's the same hype cycle, right?
I don't think it fully makes sense,
but you know, the energy around it's impossible to get sucked in.
And what is the hype cycle on the whole MPA side?
Like is the hype cycle that things like streaming
at the edge matter?
I don't even know.
I literally just can't even follow the conversation.
Like is there, is part of that on the hype cycle
outside of the edge stuff?
Yeah, I definitely would say there's definitely
I see conversations with, oh, you're using an SPA,
that's bad, you need to be doing SSR.
Everything needs to be SSR.
If it's not SSR, it has bad performance.
Yeah, computers should be as like a C way of doing things.
If you see that, it's probably someone being tricked
to use an SPA one day.
Like it's just like, you know, the usual things
that you hear.
But I think there's a lot of things
that make sense as SSR.
I literally never, my whole career, I never worked.
I generally don't work on stuff that's like public.
I work on stuff that's like a BDB SaaS application.
So it's for a specific number of users
and that's not the whole internet.
And you don't need to worry about like the initial payloads
and all that stuff, like how big the bundles are or whatever.
Yeah, it's like something like use it for like hours
at a time because it's like a productivity tool.
So who cares about the initial load
when it's like 0.001% of the whole session?
Yeah.
The joke I made about the obsession with SSR was
everyone is optimizing for sites where people land,
leave as fast as possible and never come back.
Yeah.
So I think that's part of the problem.
The thing is so hard in like all this debate
and just thinking about new greenfield projects,
I'm just always trying to build new stuff.
I think part of it's just playing
with different new stuff, stacks and whatever.
But it's like, I can't even understand
the different types of things that get deployed to the web.
And I know people talk about like apps versus sites,
but it's way more complicated than that, right?
Like do you have a good handle on that stuff?
I'm just asking you random questions at this point.
It's just like it's none of this stuff
is like bray sound in a clean category.
It's like even the app versus site thing, there's,
so we have, so as I see we have our docs page.
Yeah.
So sorry, docs site.
So that's definitely like a site.
It's not an app you use, but even there,
there's like client side routing versus server side routing.
It could be a site that people, for documentation,
you might sit there and go to literally
every single page and read everything.
So it makes sense to use client side routing.
So things like feel fast and you navigate.
But if people are landing there through Google
and like reading one thing and leaving,
you know, then maybe you want to use server side or MPA,
I guess it's called like all these acronyms are jumbled.
So yeah, it's just hard.
Like I think ultimately things matter.
Yeah, it doesn't matter.
Yeah, I mean, I go back to like the levels
I owe like the Peter levels, like single PHP page,
remote okay or whatever.
Yeah.
So we don't care and we want to put that caring,
like we want to project that caring onto something
and there's things that are out there that are like,
okay, if you care like do X, Y, Z.
So I mean, there's a lot out there that are saying,
if you care, use this.
So all you have to do is care, you'll find something.
If you care, like you'll make it, you'll make it work well.
So what is your, if it's not, if edge is just part
of the hype cycle right now and doesn't matter
that much maybe and we're just all really excited,
what is the thing that does matter a lot you think right now?
What's something like in terms of performance
and in terms of building apps for devs like today?
Just general purpose.
I know there's so many different types of use cases,
but is there something that's further along the hype cycle
that's actually maturing that you're excited about?
Yeah, I do think like event driven architecture is something,
I think past the hype cycle and lots of people
using in production, real companies,
like lots of new interesting things with that.
And yeah, I think, I mean, that's like all my work is
in that category as well.
Is that just the more, is that like the better way
to put serverless these days?
Like, is that kind of like serverless was too,
like lumped in with too many things?
So now we say event driven applications
or is it like you can build a serverless app
and not be event driven?
Yeah, I know, I just know people hate the term serverless.
I've, I like, yeah, I don't have a problem with it,
but it means the thing and I know it kind of means.
Yeah, I get what people are talking about.
But I think it just has baggage.
So now I say, 'cause when I say, you know,
we're trying to make people use serverless
so like you should use serverless people, I don't know,
there's just some like projection that happens with it.
So when I say event driven architecture,
I feel like that's what I care about.
I think event driven architecture allows
for a lot of things to be serverless.
So it's unlikely you'll be doing that
and also not being serverless.
But it does like whenever I start talking about like,
so I asked on Twitter, like why people avoid AWS
and a lot of people respond in the way I expect,
which is they're used to like deploying their thing
and putting it on a VPS or a VM or something,
digital ocean droplet and like AWS is more expensive
or more confusing or whatever when I just need to do that.
But I think like that's the 15 years old way
of doing app development.
And, but I hate using the term like monolith.
I don't want to be like,
oh, you shouldn't build a monolith and deploy it on a VM.
It's more just like, you shouldn't have to deploy on a VM
and think about VMs or OSs or any of that stuff.
That's the thing that's important to me.
But I hate using words like distributed and monolith.
And I feel like that's not getting it to thing I care about.
Does that make sense to you?
- Yeah, I totally relate to that.
I like monoliths because I like understanding
everything that's going on.
I don't want like a million separate things that, you know,
I just never worked at a company at this scale where,
but under this scale, I mean like number of employees
where that made sense.
- Yeah, same.
- I like monoliths.
I just don't want to have something running all the time.
The thing I like about the reason I've been using
the Ray's event driven architecture more is,
the idea I like is that your system doesn't exist
unless it's processing some work.
- Okay, yeah, I like that.
I mean, that's the skills to zero kind of thing.
- Yeah, exactly.
Unless there's a request that someone asked for,
it's like your system does not, there's nothing running,
there's no VM running, you're not getting charged for that.
It's not something that can like turn into a memory leak,
whatever.
It's a whole class of problems that go away.
And yeah, it's tough because it's one of those things
where it seems like minor.
Like what's the difference between a VM always running
and what I'm describing?
There's just like a million downstream effects that,
once you start using it, you're like,
oh, I don't have to deal with this anymore.
- Yeah, well, like I've been in the world
where you deploy apps to VMs
and you have to think about those VMs
and a disk fills up or something.
Something annoying like that.
And that's the kind of stuff I never want to think about again.
And that's, I guess, the promise
and what I love about building serverless apps.
But I guess I want to go back to the monolith thing.
So event driven architectures, does that not imply,
like it's not a monolith somehow?
Like I feel like those two terms are sort of like,
at conflict and I can't figure out why.
- Yeah, I think again, that's why I feel like
we have to make up new terms for everything
because everything just has baggage.
So when people, I think historically it was like,
your application is a monolith,
meaning it runs in one process.
You should break it up into microservices.
So it's not a monolith.
And therefore monolith meant not distributed
and not monolith meant distributed.
But for me, I think when I say I'm here monolith,
I just mean when you're writing code,
when you're authoring code, it feels like one system
that you're working on.
- Yeah.
- You can easily touch all parts of this.
It's not this like broken up thing.
- So it's like author time monolith,
not necessarily like infrastructure monolith.
Like the way it's deployed is maybe very distributed
or something, but that's like less the concern.
It's more like author time concern.
- Yeah, exactly.
And an author time, like especially for the first several,
several years of your company, you probably want a monolith.
- Yeah, the only, and I would say even
what the microservices are out,
I think I've only ever seen one company
get microservices right, which is CloudFlare.
So they have a whole microservice system,
even their functions as their functions platform
is built on a concept of services.
But they remove the distributed part from it entirely.
They run every single service on every single machine.
So all the services talk to each other
within the same machine.
So all the complexities of having
a distributed system go away.
So I think they're capturing like the benefits
of the isolation and like the compartmentalization
without the overhead of just like,
it literally being a distributed system.
But yeah, everywhere else, it's kind of like,
you now have all these distributed systems problems.
And I used to be like, I said, you like, you know,
I used to be a heavy Kubernetes user.
So I'm not just hating on this stuff from like,
I'm on this team.
I'm like, I used to be on that team.
And I remember all the skills that I was proud of having
that looking back, I'm just like,
I should just not have developed those.
(laughing)
I'm on the other side.
I mean, I've never messed with Kubernetes,
but I'm still on the hating side, I guess.
That's a whole nother conversation that,
I definitely want to get into like the small team
versus big team conversation.
I think that's a separate maybe conversation.
But I definitely have thoughts about all that.
And this is all very like, it's very topical for me.
I'm just trying to like communicate some of this stuff.
And I feel like I run into the same walls in my brain
when I try to explain like,
no, I think there's better ways today
than we've done all these years.
And it's just very hard to like communicate
what that better way is and why I think it's a better way.
But it is very much coming from a context of small team
or solo development.
I just don't live outside of that.
I gotta be honest though, I feel like you don't,
I feel the pressure to add that qualifier to like
four small teams or for qualified for whatever.
But to be honest, I don't really think that's necessarily true.
Like everything we do in the way we do things,
we can find examples of big companies doing it
the exact same way.
I kind of feel like that just turns into a thing
where people say like,
oh, what you're saying doesn't work at CO.
You can't really argue with them.
- So you're saying like my intuition
about how things should be built today.
I've assumed that was just for little teams
and I just don't understand big teams.
You're saying that might apply to big teams as well?
- Yeah, I kind of like,
it's kind of taken for granted that the big team
should, is inevitable or has to exist
or they have to operate a certain way.
But I know teams that are operating at massive scale
and their system doesn't look too different
from anything URI do.
It's a little more advanced 'cause it has more years
and more maturity, but yeah,
they're doing everything the same way that we're doing.
So, I mean, that's the thing about this way of building
is just like how much leverage every individual has.
And just as a team,
how much smaller you can be and accomplish so much more.
I don't know how it all plays out,
but I can't help but think that like,
there's this whole wave of disruption
where teams that are 5% the size of big companies,
teams are just completely cleaning up
because they just have so much less to deal with
and such a smaller footprint.
And just like the fidelity of communication
is so much higher when you have a small team.
I mean, ideally it's one person's brain,
like everything can flow through there.
If one person could accomplish all of it.
- That's the ideal company, it's one person.
- Yeah, right.
So as things trend that way,
it just does seem like how are all these big companies
gonna justify their giant teams
when it gets easier and easier to build.
I mean, it all kind of depends on these managed services
that ultimately a big team, like the AWS team.
I don't know, it's a bunch of little teams really.
They're putting together this stuff that allows for that.
So I don't know how that all plays in.
It does seem like there's some like
at the utility level need for big companies
to push this stuff forward,
but it just opens up these doors
where I feel like little startups that are tiny
can accomplish more and more.
We've got data points of that.
It's just like their little dots on the timeline
that don't get enough attention, I don't think.
- Yeah.
And I think, again, just having been in a different mindset,
the work that we consider overhead
or like you should outsource at AWS,
it feels really valuable when you're doing it
at the company you're doing it at 'cause it,
you're really solving problems, you're really unblocking stuff,
you're really making stuff better.
And when people say, when people like us are saying,
oh, you shouldn't be doing any of that.
It understandably feels like what are you talking about?
It's like obviously necessary
and a lot of the quality comes from that.
But I think the thing you realize when you flip over
is there are just a million things
you could be working on at any company.
Oh yeah, if you're working on this,
if that goes away, they're just a million things
that you could be doing to make your product or company better.
You're never gonna run out of work.
There's always something better you could be doing.
- So the more you can like select
into the most valuable thing, the better.
'Cause there's always that optimization problem.
It's not going away.
- Interesting.
I still don't know if I feel like I can explain
how I think serverless or event-driven applications
are the future.
I always just go back to Simon Woodley on Twitter.
He's like my anchor.
Whenever I start doubting all this,
I just go back to his tweets.
And I'm like, yeah, he's too smart.
He gets it.
- Yeah.
- There's a lot of people on all of that option too.
- Oh yeah, yeah.
I mean, he's covered like the whole cloud adoption side.
I don't know.
I guess like what is the future for things like Kubernetes?
I don't know what the theme of this episode is anymore.
I'm just like coming up with more thoughts,
just bubbling the service.
But I guess like, are people deceived?
Is there, is it not the future?
'Cause I know Simon Woodley has said things like,
I think it's a distraction.
I think the whole containerization obsession
and Kubernetes obsession is a distraction
that's set back serverless quite a bit
using serverless as a term for kind of what we're talking about here.
Is that like, is that how you view it?
That like, or is there a place for it alongside serverless?
It just feels like there's a lot of smart people on both sides.
It can't all be wrong.
- Yeah, I think the way, at least the way I felt,
is my whole career,
I've been figuring out how to manage nodes with less work.
So back when we had physical servers,
like how can I best manage them?
Then we got like VMs, how can I best manage those nodes?
We got containers, how can I best manage those nodes?
And Kubernetes came out and it is the best way
to manage nodes, or one of the best ways.
Like there are some like,
Hashi Korps thing is also very good, Nomad.
But in the whole history of managing nodes,
this is like, it's so good.
It's so much better than any other stuff I've ever had to deal with,
especially with like, you know,
doing it through Terraform and all that.
It is amazing.
But the thing that happened was,
what if I, what if someone told you,
you actually don't have to manage nodes?
- I was gonna say, what is a node?
Just like something that runs that you're responsible for.
- Okay, I already don't like it, okay, keep going.
- Yeah, so I think that's why people love Kubernetes
'cause they've been doing some flavor
of managing nodes their whole career.
And it's always been a pain
and Kubernetes makes it a lot easier.
But the question is like,
do we even need to manage those anymore?
'Cause now there's a whole other option
that's kind of coming out of left field
that is very, very different.
- Yeah.
- I mean, don't need to do that.
And then these things look kind of like overly complicated
where like, why does this even exist?
- Yeah, it's funny, like my Twitter timeline is so,
it's split between what I feel like is this crazy,
complicated thing that people dove into with Kubernetes
and then like deploy your whole app on Vercel
and you don't need anything else.
It's like the two polar, I feel like opposites of like,
well, I look at Vercel and I'm like,
there's more, you need more to build apps.
And then I look at Kubernetes and I'm like,
I don't know what that is, but I don't really,
I feel like that's too much to have to think about.
- Then I see very little of that middle ground
of what I think is this amazing way to build apps.
I don't know, I don't know, lots of thoughts.
- I don't know.
And I think it's also hard to gauge.
I think we're on Twitter, social media, et cetera.
And that's like, I think at least for myself,
that's where I get a feel for what's going on.
But if you look at actual data for what's going on,
it's like very different.
Like almost the opposite of anything we see.
So that's always tough.
So Twitter is, it's just a small,
I mean, it's a pretty small network,
I guess, of people that actually get on Twitter
and say anything.
I mean, if it's like not even all the devs are on Twitter,
like what percentage of people on Twitter actually tweet.
So yeah, it makes sense.
- Yeah.
And Twitter tends to be like really front-end heavy
and like there's very--
- Yeah, worries that we've talked about this before.
What's that about?
Like your theory is that back-end developers
just have an amazing life and they don't need the internet
or social media.
- I have no idea.
I mean, I think I'm mostly a back-end.
- I think I am too.
- I mean, I just am so slow at front-end,
I must be a back-end developer.
(laughing)
I don't know why else I'd be so bad at front-end.
- Yeah.
Sometimes I think I'm a good front-end developer
then I see some stuff and I'm like,
I actually have no idea how they did that.
So I can't be a front-end developer.
- Do you have any working theories for the discrepancy?
Why the public discourse, even like Hacker News and stuff,
well, maybe not as much.
I don't get on there.
I don't know.
It's been a long time.
But it does seem like front-end dev
just sort of dominates the conversation.
- Yeah, I think it might be,
I'm not showing up as an age thing.
Like if you're earlier in your career,
I think you're more likely to be a front-end engineer
'cause I was exactly the same way.
You wanna learn how to build stuff,
you want that immediate feedback
that you're making progress.
Front-end is like the best place to do that.
And I think people that are maybe earlier
in their career are also more likely to be on Twitter.
- I'm having this stuff that they're building
can fit into this like mostly front-end
with a little back-end model that, you know,
Verzell is great for.
- Yeah, I'm having this flashback.
Like I've heard someone say that and I think it was you.
I think we've had this conversation.
I'm just remembering.
You say, it makes sense.
Like the feedback loop.
If you're, or maybe it was someone else actually,
it could have been someone else that talked about like,
when you're building back-end stuff,
there's very little that you can like iterate and see.
It's so much easier to just build a front-end app
and like you change the CSS and you see the button change.
And like there's that immediate loop.
Whereas back-end stuff is a little more like,
hard to get that, I guess.
- I get feedback.
- You've got the right JSON response.
- You're right, yeah.
- Exactly.
I love back-end work.
I mean, I love obviously cloud stuff.
I just think every time I do front-end development,
I get sucked into it for like weeks
to try and do the simplest of things.
All right, I don't know how long we've been talking.
Is this an episode, Dax?
- This is gonna be a little rough.
I'm just gonna be honest.
These first episodes, figuring out a new format.
- I think it'll be good.
- I think it's gonna be great.
I'm excited about it.
- No rough, but I think it'll be good, yeah.
- Yeah, a little rough, gonna be good.
We're gonna just keep doing it.
And I think that's the trick is like,
you just keep doing stuff and it ends up really good,
eventually, I don't know.
- Yeah.
- We have any other thoughts on the edge.
That's what we started talking about.
(laughing)
- Yeah, I'm trying to figure out how we should title these like.
- Yeah, this one's gonna be-
- Maybe just be like comma separated list of all the topics.
- Yeah, that works for me.
There was stuff I wanted to kind of dig at,
like in terms of the edge and how it relates like AWS services.
I think of like a lot of the problem I have with the edge is like,
so Lambda at Edge, you can do all the Lambda E things,
node runtime, like, I think it's constrained a little bit.
Maybe you can only do node and Python or something.
I don't know, not all the run times.
- There's like really weird restrictions.
I don't know if you know this,
but Lambda Edge cannot have environment variables.
- Oh, really?
- It's like- - It's such a pain.
- Huh, yeah, I feel like I've done some Lambda Edge stuff.
And I guess I never noticed,
but that seems like a pretty big thing you would notice.
- But there's some really weird stuff in SST where we like,
let you think there's environment variables,
then we do like a string replace in your code.
Wow.
- Half our deploys.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
- So Lambda at Edge and then,
but that's only in like 14, okay.
It's like more than the regions,
but less than the actual edge, like CloudFront.
Edges, nodes, whatever, right?
Lambda Edge doesn't actually run.
It sits like between the regions
and then all the actual edge locations.
- Yeah.
- And then there's five different--
- The average latency on it is different.
- Yeah.
But then like if you want to use the CloudFront functions
where you run and compute actually at the edge,
it's like you can't interact with the page body.
Like you can only kind of like change the headers and stuff.
And I just don't know,
I guess there's things that that's good for.
- It's also limited to like a five millisecond runtime
or something.
- Oh yeah.
- It's super short, yeah.
- Yeah.
- So is that work cloud?
I've never played with CloudFlare workers.
Are they more like actually at the edge
and actually you can do stuff?
Is there, there's like advantages there?
- Yeah, I have a whole thing on this.
So up front disclosure, CloudFlare is the biggest
position in my portfolio.
- Oh.
- Like I own a ton of CloudFlare.
- I was waiting for like CloudFlare
sponsored this episode and I was excited.
Like, oh, that's cool.
Okay, so big, so you're a big CloudFlare fan.
- You're an investor and that we got it.
Disclaimed, I've never had to disclaim something.
I'm being really awkward now
because I've never had to do this on a podcast.
Okay, we've done it.
We've done the disclaimer CloudFlare, legal.
You can step away.
Okay, go ahead, Dak.
- Yeah, so like, but that's all backed by I think my,
just my excitement around what they're doing.
So I think like we all love the serverless world.
I think realistically today AWS is the only one
that has a complete serverless platform.
Like it's more than just functions, right?
It's functions, queues, all the stuff you need
to do a full application.
And I feel like CloudFlare is the only other company
really getting to that level of completeness.
A lot of that stuff is like still in preview
and you know, not widely accessible.
I think they still have like five plus years to go
before like this competition really shows up.
But yeah, I love their functions platform.
I think it makes a lot of sense.
They have really good options.
It all works well, nicely well together.
I think with AWS, it feels like it grew more organically
and accidentally and with CloudFlare, it was more like,
okay, we already know serverless exists
and we're like bought into this concept.
What is like the ideal vision?
- They got to kind of design it and build it
when it was a thing already.
Like they had more of a target,
whereas AWS kind of invented it sort of in ways.
- Yeah, exactly.
So it's like it's a lot cleaner
and there's like less weirdness with everything.
- But I feel like the only ones that can be,
so I think you and I believe that this is
like the future of way most applications will be built.
- Yeah.
- AWS is like so well positioned.
But yeah, they're like run time.
So they have their own run time.
So the downside is you can't use most node modules,
like the most MPM packages.
- Right.
- Is that a downside?
I think it's kind of like a good filter.
(laughing)
Kind of prevents you from using stuff that isn't great.
But you can more or less build whatever you want
within their run time.
I think we're all going to be a little annoyed
with all these different run times.
Like you got node, which we're all familiar with.
Now, Cloudflare has their own.
There's like Denno and then it was a button
and button is going to be fully compatible.
So that might not be an issue.
There's like an explosion of run times right now,
which is kind of annoying.
But yeah, I think there's their setup is really good.
It makes a lot of sense.
It's really focused on this event driven thing.
So I don't know how many people are actually using it,
but that's my one, I guess my one big question.
When I hear that like there is no infrastructure as code,
how do you actually, are you console clicking?
Like what do you, how are you defining apps for Cloudflare?
So they have, I wouldn't call it infrastructure as code.
It's more like a framework for building Cloudflare apps.
And it was like a CLI tool.
So it's like all fit and the CLI tool do deployments.
Yeah.
So, and you're like, you're building out, like you're just writing
TypeScript files or something and using this library.
Exactly.
It's like, it's like a, it's more opinionated
than you get with AWS because you have to figure out
how to structure things, but have like 30% more of a framework
and there's a clear way of how you structure applications,
how you breaks apart, all gets deployed as these like
individual functions that run.
And there's options for like queues and like,
like an S3 equivalent and like some database options as well.
Okay.
I just, I think you've picked my curiosity, peaked, I don't know.
You've got me curious if there is actually some kind of,
I just imagine like zipping up things and like
uploading them through a web UI.
And that's how you define a Cloudflare application.
That was just sort of a non-starter in my mind.
That's where my mind goes when I hear no infrastructure as code.
But this sounds like not terrible.
And it makes sense, I guess if people like enjoy building on it,
it wouldn't be terrible.
So I shouldn't just jump to the most terrible possibility.
Yeah.
It doesn't cover everything and I do,
I think they do need to add some native IAC thing in there.
That's a huge task.
Oh yeah.
They might already be working on it, but yeah.
Okay, that's enough of our edge talk
and whatever else we talked about.
And we're just gonna, we're gonna end it.
I don't know.
Goodbye Dax.
I don't know what do I say at the end of that alone.
(laughing)
So hard.
(upbeat music)